# Predicting-FIFA-World-Cup-2018-Results-Using-Machine-Learning
The issues of football predictions models have become increasingly popular in the last few years and many different approaches have been proposed with the aim to evaluating the factors that would lead a football team to lose, draw or win the match. Three types of approaches have been considered for predicting football matches results, namely: Statistical, Machine Learning and Bayesian approaches.  This code is a part of the Project Work performed by Stefanos Efstathiou and myself to obtain the Diploma in the International Master in Business Analytics and Big Data from the MIP Politecnico di Milano. We examined Classification models to predict the results of football matches, in terms of home win (H), away win (A) and draw (D) and Regression models   in terms of Goal Difference (Home Goals – Away Goals).  Past data from international matches have been selected and reviewed. K-fold cross validation has been used for testing the accuracy of prediction models.  The required information about the football matches data was sourced from http://www.kaggle.com. The results of this thesis showed that the best model to predict the Winner of the FIFA World Cup 2018 is the XGBoosting from the Classification model and the Neural Network from the Regression model. Using Monte Carlo simulation, the team with the best probability to win the FIFA World Cup 2018 was England. It should be noted that England won again Belgium in the FIFA World Cup 2018 Final. The other two teams which reached the semi-finals in our simulation were France and Spain, with Spain winning the 3rd place. The results of this Master thesis will hopefully be informative and of value to those performing future research in this specific application area.
